---

title: Week 11 / 12

date: 2019-04-20

published: false

tags: ['internship']

description: "The last week."

---

It has been beautiful weather these last few days.

I have these small moments of focus, where I choose a small task and complete it in one go.  
Followed by a feeling of satisfaction, I take a moment to browse Twitter or message my friends.

I consider browsing Twitter part of my job. It's getting increasingly difficult to filter through the meaningless posts, but once in a while I find some new Tech or some post raising awareness of something which isn't yet the norm, but should be.

Those little wins make it still worth it for now.

## Project

I've been able to complete the most important parts of our project. Your current template gets completely synced in a local state. Nothing is saved until the moment you press that save button. From then on everything gets shot to the server.

I've even managed to get the most important part working, which is rendering an actual pdf.  
Every section of the template has a function to render HTML.  
This HTML gets combined and sent together with a custom css file to the server.  
The server will treat every word inside double brackets as a variable and replace it with actual data before converting it into a pdf using prince XML.

All that's left is firing up a real alpha release now, and get some feedback from users.

## Remote

The day before the 4 days easter weekend, some people only work a half day. And because it's only a half day, they won't bother showing up. They will work "from home".

It's not a remote company. But especially my team, the front-end team, seems to be on site for 50% of the time.

This is a combination between people actually working part-time, or people choosing to work from home half the time.

If I join the company as a full time remote employee, we will need better communication. 

And since the team is 50% remote, I think this improvement can only benefit the company as a whole.
