---

title: Week 9 / 12

date: 2019-04-06

published: false

tags: ['internship']

description: "The style-guide includes all the mvps and the new project is coming to an end."

---

# Week 9 / 12

Time goes so fast. I have already planned my trip home. Everything is taken care of.

I do miss home, but I'm sure I'll miss it here once I'm gone.

They really embrace the nature in Sweden. You'll find beautiful parks everywhere. The water surrounding the city is very calming.

The internship feels like a real job. I get to participate in all the decisions and meetings. They trust me to be able to perform on my own.

The project that we started on when I arrived is not quite finished.  
It was time for a redesign of the company. After 7 years they felt like changing colors. But it's not that easy to just change everything. People don't like change.

So they introduced this side project that is a template creator. Together with this side project they hired a designer. The main project is build on old, robust software with a lot of rules. This new project had all the freedom.

They could use it to test their new design on. Working closely with our UX Designer, we brought the designs and specs to life.

The component library already includes all of the main components. The first versions are built. They need to be a lot more complex when they will be introduced in the main project.

But the testing can begin. We have built a tag component, a table, list, select, input, alert, button, checkbox, tooltip, modal, dropdown... And there are a lot more to come.

Now we will start implementing these in our project. QA has also started testing these components. We have developed a live style-guide in Storybook, where you can test these components and play around.

There are a couple more technical things that need to happen in our template editor project. I have already made it so that we use the tables to get an overview of all the templates. When you select one it loads one in with a lot of sections that you can drag and drop and resize to your likings.

The last part that is left after we import all the new components is getting this to actually export to a PDF or a template that gets filled in. Not sure how that will happen.

I hope we get to finish this project. I have 3 weeks internship left.