---

title: Daily Journal

date: 2019-04-06

published: false

tags: ['travels']

description: "Write 5 sentences a day."

---

## 15 April 2019

The sun is shining through my window.

Luckily, while I'm lying in bed, there's a wall between my head and the window, so that only feet get lit up.

I can feel the presence of the sun, it is warm. It makes me believe that it will be a good, warm day.

I open my curtains and let the sun shine through.  
It is probably barely above 0 degrees celsius, but the temperature is not of any concern.

As long as there is sun, it is a good day.

## 16 April 2019

The sun is shining in my face.

You can get twitter followers by getting retweeted by someone with more followers. I had released my cat donation website on twitter, but not many people got to see it. I chose not to message Emma again, as I hoped she would see it for herself, but she did not and the tweet went unnoticed.

I have bought an annual subscription on Brilliant.org. Which is a combination of brain training and fundamental disciplines like Math, Science and Computer Science. I like to follow the natural path, so I will complete the Mathematical Foundation first.

You really have to think about the exercises. After watching tons of videos I have come to the conclusion that it really is the only way to learn. By doing it. By thinking about it.

Once you make a decision that will be your final answer. If you made a stupid mistake then you gave a wrong answer. There's no turning back.

I have always dreamt of being smart.

I had a little advantage in life, which had carried me effortlessly through High School.  
But that advantage stopped really fast as I didn't have the habit of putting effort in ~~studying~~ *anything*.

And from now on it's all hard work. Everyone can get there if they just keep working on it.

## 17 April 2019

The sun is still shining in my face.

I have started my own company. Now I have to pay quarterly social taxes. But I can write invoices to companies and refund taxes.

I will probably take the job with ProReNata from home. Then I can invoice them monthly with my company. I have already been thinking a lot about where I will be staying to work. I need a good work place which is not the place where I hang out or sleep.

One idea is to use the attic in my girlfriends house. I could work from there.  
Then after work I can still go to one of my parents to eat or sleep. Some days I could just stay there as well, as I'm very welcome there.

I have also finished exporting our generated templates to a PDF with Prince XML. It's very exciting to see the final step to our project coming near.

### The Evening

The sun is still shining, but not in my face.

The bars have started lining up the chairs outside, and people have massively occupied the available spaces. Everyone is sitting outside enjoying the sun.

I didn't feel like going home yet. It was one of those days where I just wanted to walk in the distance for hours. So I went home.

But I decided to not be home yet. I didn't take of my shoes or my jacket. I opened the window and made a coffee. It's as if I'm sitting in a bar.  
Except that it isn't as loud. Yes, even those coffee bars get loud nowadays.

It's almost easter. The days get less productive. Today was a mixture of working, searching information and chilling.

I have these small moments of focus, where I choose a small task and complete it in one go. That mostly goes together with satisfaction, and I take a moment to browse Twitter or message my friends.

I consider browsing Twitter part of my job. It's getting increasingly difficult to filter through the meaningless posts, but once in a while I find some new Tech or some post raising awareness of something which isn't yet the norm, but should be.

Those little wins make it still worth it for now.

I've been able to complete the most important parts of our project. Your current template gets completely synced in a local state. Nothing is saved until the moment you press that save button. From then on everything gets shot to the server.

I've even managed to get the most important part working, which is rendering an actual pdf.  
Every section of the template has a function to render HTML.  
This HTML gets combined and sent together with an exclusive css file to the server, which converts it into a pdf using prince XML.

All that's left is firing up a real alpha release now, and get some feedback from users.

## 18 April 2019

The sun is not shining in my face.

It may be because it is a tad bit later than usual. As I did not get enough night's rest, I decided to sleep in for another 20 minutes. And extend my early phone bed time to 50 minutes.

But, at least I straightened my finances again.

It is so confusing, the year when you stop studying and start working. Because it's still in the same year.  
So the income is combined and I will probably make too much money to do anything.  
And most importantly, I need to watch out that I don't lose the money I have received to study.

Today is the day before the 4 days easter weekend. And for some reason people are only working a half day. And because it's only a half day, they won't bother showing up. They will work "from home".

It's not a remote company, but especially my team, the front-end team, seems to be on site for 50% of the time.

This is a combination between people actually working part-time, or people choosing to work from home half the time.

When I join the company as a full time remote employee, we will need better communication. And since the team is 50% remote, I think this improvement can only benefit the company as a whole.

## 19 April 2019

It's easter holidays. Yesterday the office was quite empty and everyone but one person left the office at noon.

I managed to finish 1 project. Today I want to get my next project in a working state.

I also want to begin sending invoices to people but that requires me to finally know if I should charge taxes or not!

It's Friday so no one will be in the office. But I still want to go and work from there because it will boost my productivity.

## 20 April 2019

I have finished 2 big milestones in personal projects in the last 2 days. I am going to continue this good flow and work every day during my easter holiday.

You could see it as wasted time while I'm still in Sweden, but I'm making good use of the office. And the office is great, but the best part is the area it is in.  
I can use my breaks to walk and explore.

I want to spend my whole day today to learn and study. Just set my main goal today to finish some courses.

I've been experimenting with a lot of habits in the last months, but the only thing I seem to have achieved after 3 months is how to make habits.  
The habits I have set out to work on right now, are smaller and more consistent.

It consists of a morning routine and some general rules throughout the day.

* 10 push-ups
* Read 3 pages in a book
* Write 5 sentences

These goals are very small. I've done this on purpose. Some days I really don't want to do it. Everyone has those days.  
And then I can still convince myself because it are 'only 3 pages'.  
On good days I end up doing more anyways. There's nothing that's stopping me.

A few days later I added 2 more things, which I was already doing. Tracking these just gives me a bigger boost.

* Don't eat before 12h
* Don't eat after 20h
* Wash body
* Wash hair

Yes, personal hygiene is a thing I have to remember to do. I alternate between washing my hair or refreshing my body.

## 21 April 2019

Instead of sitting down and telling myself to write a story, I'm just making it a habit and write every day.

To my surprise I have found the advantage yesterday, I could spin up a blog post with things I had written over the past couple days.

Everything is also clearer and fresh in my memory when you write it in the morning.

Yesterday I was feeling a bit alone. There just isn't someone to hang out with when you need it. I know that it probably is my own fault for not reaching out at the start.

Also everything which is social just costs money. And I'm tired of spending so much money.

I think I'm fine again today. I had a moment to rest, a moment to waste.

Even though I'm remembering my breaks and not to work too hard, I'm still getting burned. It's still getting too much. I'm still constantly losing motivation.

I'm struggling so hard with making something for my final project. I should really just start something. Just anything, and stop overthinking it. I can turn any small thing into something big, I'm sure of it.

I made it my study day yesterday. To just look up anything I want.  
I followed some course on accessibility from google. It was useful but took up some time. I have finished 2 lessons from the 5 lesson course.

I wanted to continue my learning process in the afternoon, but I just couldn't.

So I ended up just listening to a podcast, reading a bit and then mostly making sandwiches and eating.

I left the office earlier than usual. When I arrived at my place, I just sat on the bed for a while. Closing my eyes and resting. I haven't had any naps since I've been in Stockholm.  
It is also impossible to sleep in. The light just wakes me up anyway. Which is not a bad thing as long as I remember to go to bed in time.

## 22 April 2019

Some structure in my writing.

1) What did I do yesterday
2) What will I do today

### 1

I am focussing on making sure that I get enough sleep. If i open my eyes at 7, I force myself to sleep until at least 8.

So I only arrived at the office by 10h00. Which is fine.
I don't even remember what I was doing before lunch. But during lunch I was listening to the podcast Tools where she was interviewing the creator of Svelte, Rich Harris. They were talking about Svelte v3 coming up and the great tutorial they have.

So after noon I decided to check it out. They indeed have a wonderful and big tutorial. I only got halfway through.

It's an interesting language and I think it will be good to understand it's basics. Just as I need to understand a bit of typescript, because of its special @class syntax which I've been noticing.

Now I remember what I was doing before noon. I tried to get a typescript project running using the vue cli. For some reason the build didn't want to run and I gave up after a while.

As I was doing the tutorial, I tried to get it working locally. I like Parcel and it does support it, but not all the docs were finished yet. So it seemed that v3 wasn't working with Parcel yet.

I hopped on their discord and started reading the chat. It seemed that v3 wasn't even out yet, because he announced the release midst my reading.

This reminded me that there was also a Vue discord, named Vueland. I decided to check this one out again. I remember reading that as a freelance developer you need to put yourself out there, join some slack channels and talk with people.

So I tried to talk with people on this channel. I read through the code-help channels and I did find some things I could try to help with. I just pinged some people with possible responses, and they kept asking questions. After a while of back and forth communication, I ended up helping around 4 people.

This felt great. I did not expect that I could have an answer for them. The main reason holding me back from answering is mostly because of the thought 'What if my answer is not the best, most correct answer'. This is really holding me back. I guess it goes together with not wanting to make mistakes.

I'm afraid of making mistakes. Maybe I do suffer from imposter syndrome?

Anyhow, shutting up until I'm old and wise isn't the solution, I need to throw myself in there and make mistakes. So I'm going to keep trying to talk with people and who knows I might make a friend.

### 2

Now I've been rambling a lot about yesterday, but what will I do today?

I wanted to check some more discord channels and talk with people. As well as work on some personal project of mine. For the rest I'm just slowly continuing my habits.

I do pushups or crunches each day, and I'm trying to do a frog handstand. This is a funny and difficult process so it is easy to be motivated for. You just try it each day and see progress.

I also read each day. The goal is read 3 pages. I've been keeping this up for 9 days now, which is already amazing.

I also have to write 3 sentences a day. I guess this is more than 3 sentences.

I know I shouldn't add too many habits at once, but I did add 'Be mindful 15 minutes'. Which means to meditate. I really need to clear my mind and regain focus.

## 23 April 2019

### 08h01

The sun is shining in my face again, it probably has to do with the time of writing. Hence I noted the exact time.

### What did I do

Yesterday was quite productive, but all in small steps. I worked out, I read, I wrote, I meditated and I worked on an app for a client. I continued to help people in the Discord channel.

Everything went really smooth. The client doesn't know anything about tech so I went with whatever I wanted. Which is a Nuxt project using Firebase. Once you get over the hassle of setting up firebase, everything goes so smoothly. I should write that process down.

One which is pure technical, and put that in my wiki. And one that takes the post from my wiki and adds some flair, for my blog.

I came home around 17h, satisfied by with what I had accomplished. Then I watched the new got, an episode of The Crown, played a bit of a video game, although my laptop was getting quite hot which prompted me to stop playing.

### What will I do

Well, the easter holiday is over. So it's back to doing whatever ProReNata wants me to do. I'll try to check discord while I'm working. Maybe I can keep helping some people.